Thank you, everyone. Welcome everyone. Again, we are going to follow the teachings, what we are
going through,
and the teachings that are taught by a great teacher, Japji Dhenu Rinpoche, according to his
instructions,
we are following in this teaching, the condensed, the essential, hard-advised teaching.
So again, we are going to follow the teachings, as always, in teaching said, and all great masters
also often mention, we should strengthen our beautiful intention, motivation, intention,
restatement, beautiful motivation, motivation or intention of joy and application, and vastness,
motivation of the bodhicitta,
and purity, motivation of the Vedayana teachings. Those are combined together, and then reflect
and observe the teachings into the heart. And in this teaching, again, we are going through the
contrast of the three frames of the entire when we do the practices or meditating, and those are
the three novels.
And I mentioned that I listed those three novels, and of course, you all know too, so now we are
going through the three novels.
And the first novel is the intention, and that is known as skillful means of the intention of the
bodhicitta and the devotions,
and then as well as joy and appreciation. Those are the skillful means. What that actually means is
when we
raise up those beautiful motivations, it will transform everything into beautiful practices,
practices.
All our sessions for one hour, if we do practices, if we start with those beautiful intentions,
really, it will direct that kind of on that line. So therefore, it is transforming our one session
practices
by these beautiful motivations. Therefore, it is so important. And among the motivations, we are
talking about the bodhicitta.
In the bodhicitta, I made divisions, or I mean, it's not an aspect. In that, I kind of called the
teachings,
I mentioned those, and of course, I also mentioned about the nature or the identity of the bodhic
ittas.
Then we went the division of the bodhicittas, and all those divisions can summarize into two bodhic
Those are known as the wishing bodhicitta and actualizing bodhicitta, and that's the true bodhic
itta.
So now we're going on these wishing bodhicittas. Now this bodhicitta is the mind of enlightenment
as English translated in Sanskrit is bodhicitta, and in it, it is chancha-sen.
So now we're going on the wishing bodhicitta. Wishing bodhicitta is again so important.
It is the foundation of the bodhicitta, bodhicitta. What the great master Shanti Deva said in the
teaching that we often pray that in our, every time when we do pray, I will read this in this,
and then you all know this. Many of you may know this. This is what in the teaching said here.
The precious bodhicitta, in those without it, may it be generated. In those who have it,
may it never be managed, but always continue to increase. That is what really the bodhicitta.
The first is precious bodhicitta. That is precious bodhicitta. The precious bodhicitta
is not just only certain people have that, and we don't have that. We all have this bodhicitta,
this potential of the bodhicitta. The person trying our bodhicitta, most of the bodhicitta
is hiding, only sleeping, sleeping state. Now we have to wake up that. We have to wake up this.
So therefore what the great master Shanti Deva said, precious bodhicitta, those individuals,
individual, in those without it may generate it, may generate it. So how we may be generating that?
That is wishing bodhicitta. We are going to generate this by knowing the importance and values
of bodhicitta, therefore we are generating the wishing bodhicitta. When we generate the wishing
bodhicitta, how are we going to maintain that bodhicitta? That is also wishing bodhicitta,
but at the same time actualizing bodhicitta. That will keep, is not going to demolish it,
but going to increase the bodhicitta, going to do the bodhicitta. So therefore this bodhicitta
is the hidden nature. In a way it is a hidden worrying that within sleeping in the midst of the
old duality self-important conceptions. Now we have this, the worrying, we have to really wake up.
This worrying, when we wake up this worrying, this is not just only worrying to benefit our self,
but it is benefiting all living beings. But it's also not just a benefit to our self,
short period of time, for a few short time or a few hours, a few days, you know, a few months.
When we wake up the worrying self of the bodhicitta, it is going to benefit for us
all the time. From that point we are really the winners. We are the winner, we are in the
direction of the victorious, we are in the direction and going to defeat to all the obstacles
that will be disturbing us so many lifetimes. And we have the memories of our lifetimes,
how many lifetimes this ego clinging, this self-important, self-centered mind
disturbs us one after another. They're so paternity, it looks like they're going to help us,
and kind of paternity and naive and hidden, but yet they are the most dangerous obstacles
to us for all the time according to the great teacher, Buddha Shatya Muni and Gaurav Vammasama.
Now, how we can defeat this? How we can really defeat that obstacle for us,
but also it's obstacles for others? How are we going to defeat? That is then, as I said,
we shall really let wake up our warriorships or our brave warriors of this bodhicitta.
If we wake up this bodhicitta, what is that? The principle, simple benefit, simple kind of
call it of this. What is the teaching said? The great master, I mean is the Buddha Shatya Muni's
teaching, but what the great master, the future Buddha, who's going to become the next Buddha,
the next time after the Buddha Shatya Muni said, "My dear, in his mighty praise," many of you do
that prayer too. In that prayer he said, "And really the benefit, the power of the bodhicitta
is going to be defeated." In the end, it will go and blow the passage of the lower arms,
back into this, and blow the passage of the lower arms and open the door of the upper arms.
It will lead us beyond death and getting all those sufferings. That is bodhicitta. He said,
"Therefore, I pay homage. I respect the bodhicitta." That is really the bodhicitta.
So therefore, this reaching bodhicitta is the fundamental, the foundation of the bodhicitta,
of the entire bodhicitta. And therefore, this again, so reaching bodhicitta is so important
and we can maintain and activate that in four different points. And that is
poor, boundless. As I said, you all know. Again, I'm not talking something new things.
We all remember, we all know and heard this poor, boundless. We even jite.
But many times we really jite. Or mostly we jite here. We jite here. Or maybe what here in the
West, they said, "Lip services." We just say that walls not really coming from the heart.
We're going to make that truly is coming from our heart, from our heart. We're going to stand and
try to stand at least that short time, or maybe five minutes, standing firmly on the wall, what
we say, or firmly behind that meaning of that, we're trying to stay behind the meaning of the wall,
what we're jiting. Jiting. Then it's become the boundless. Had no boundaries. Boundless means no
boundaries. Person day or person's time, also we have love, we have compassion, we have joy.
But it's all limited. It's with border. It's not really limitless. Everything's border. It's
blocked. Our love is limited. Our compassion is limited. Our joy is reduced, is limited.
And our income limit is very, very limited. That's really what we are now. But this time,
we are open the door of these qualities. Realitately, the love has no border.
Compassion has no border.
Rejoice has no border. And economic has no border. Why? Because mind has no border.
This mind, nature of the mind, you read. Our sorrow, each of us read it. Does our mind has border?
No. There's no way we can help. There is border of the mind. That is what. But who's who put
borders?
Is our deluded mind or the ego clinging so important, trying to strengthen and strengthen
of that? It's knocking our own peace to our own head. Head making that.
We're not letting the way the nature is. Natural mind. Therefore, the gracious,
kindness, compassion, wise teacher, without opening the door for all living beings.
Love for all living beings. Compassion for all living beings. Rejoice, joy for all living beings.
And the equanimity, no borders. So that is what really boundness. Again, why is boundness in the
teaching? Because love or discordness has no borders. But where we project that love,
this poor boundness, love and compassion, what's this? We are not limited for the projection or
the object. Our object is we're talking all descendant beings. Is there a number of descendant
beings? According to Buddhism, there is no numbers. For example, is there borders of the sky
or space? According to Buddha's teaching, there is no borders. No boundaries of the sky.
Similarly, the sentient beings are vastness as space. Sentient beings, all the beings. If you don't
know the sentient beings, beings. B-E-R-N-G. Being has no limitation. No numbers. It's numberless
beings. And each of those living beings has, oh, everyone has emotions. Everyone has karma.
Emotion is karma. That is the cause of suffering the difficulties. Everyone is struggling.
The numberless beings are struggling with their own treasure of the karma and emotions. Or emotion
is karma. Therefore, our love and compassion match to all that beings. For that reason,
it's also known as boundless love. Because it's objected or projected to all those beings,
numberless beings. Then in the teaching said, the gracious teacher, Buddha Haqqamani said in the
teaching, said power and the benefit of the love and compassion that is boundless.
Because the love is boundless, projected is boundless and the benefit is boundless.
Benefit to who? To whom? Benefit to all those beings and the benefit of one's own self.
It's boundless. It's limitless. Therefore, it is known as boundless.
Boundless love, boundless sentient beings, boundless result and benefit.
Benefit or not? This benefit is not just a short time period of the benefit. But this is,
in the teaching said, what? It goes on. If the thing is like kind of space,
the body, the benefit of the body, we put on the tangible kind of combs and we put,
the sky is not enough to fit all the benefits. Even the sky cannot hold the power and benefit
or result of the body or the surplus of the body cannot bend. Hold by the hold or fit all that in
the sky. That's really how power is. This power, the body that is the one that's going to defeat
all our karmas, negativities, obscurations, obstacles, the hindrance that which we've
accumulated piled up from the biggest time until now. That is going to buy a clear way,
knocked away without any trace by this precious body together. Therefore, this body together is
so, so, so special. For that reason, I said the other day, and you heard this also many times,
great master papa, remember, he said, this is just again some one thing. If you have one thing,
that's enough which is both each other. That means if you have one thing, if you have one practice,
that would be enough to get enlightenment or become Buddha. That is both each other.
And we don't have this one thing of the body together, no matter whatever the practice,
princey name, the titles, practice, this and that things, is all not going to go to the direction
of the enlightenment because it's connected self-important, self-important. And it is grasping
and clingings. We've been doing self-important activity according to Buddha's teaching,
from the biggest time. There is even no numbers of our lives how many times we talk about.
It is really numberless. And that's how we're doing it. But what we're doing,
still we're struggling, still we're challenging, still we are completely crushed by all these
difficulties. Coughs and fears, kind of coincidentally one after another with me.
Never really had any kind of like, for example, like permanent dissolution of the peace and
happiness. Oh, ah, now I'm just relaxed. I can't say peace and happiness is peaceful.
Even we get troubles to be difficult. We are going to put, for example, in a cruise ship.
We're considering the best place to have vacation and relax and enjoy.
Ended up the towns. All vacation lands, all the different places.
Even that is considered in a samsara, also very luxurious, high standards. And the PC house,
bed house, sitting in the drop top, top best with the jakus and heart tower and swimming pool
and everything. But yet, what are they going through? The emotionally, mentally, psychological,
so many people, those who sit there almost looks like cage. Caged on the glass is all those places.
But in reality, they're going all the better. What's wrong? What's happening? Because of this,
according to Buddha's teaching, we couldn't keep up this control, this ego clinging,
mind and habit pattern. It's so important. It's so important, mind, ego, clinging. So,
it's like greed. It's never enough. Never enough. Even you have the best still is not enough.
That goes on and on. One after another. That's what it is. So for those reasons,
we were, we raised up the bodhicata, the precious bodhicata. The four bonds start with the four
bonders. And now, again, I'm going to talk with the four bonders. As I said yesterday,
and the continuity, and yesterday I spoke with boneless love, love and boneless compassion.
Now, boneless love, when we put that in a place and practicing that, and practice,
and that is it. May all living beings, all living beings have happiness and cause of happiness.
May all mother living beings have happiness and cause of happiness.
Now, happiness we know. That is we know of happiness. But what is cause of happiness?
Cause of happiness is love and kindness itself is cause of happiness. And compassion is
cause of happiness. Wisdom is cause of happiness. And therefore, we are going to pray,
they have always happiness, but same time, reaching to their happiness remains forever
because of the cause. If they have the continuity, every living have the continuously love and
kindness
compared to the wisdom of their heart and mind, their love or their happiness, their peace,
their relaxation will last so long forever. Therefore, when the body is sad to us,
when we develop the body, we pray not just for the happiness now, but also for the future
continuously. And what the teaching says, we pray for the cause and the result and the conditions.
What? We pray for that cause, we pray for the result. The cause of love and compassion
will produce the result of happiness. That is what it is. So therefore, we pray.
And the next one is the compassion. May all mother living beings free from suffering and cause of
suffering. Now we know the suffering, that is a result. So many people are going through that.
Through that, we are all going through. Some do be up and down. We are all going through.
That is the result. That is the present of our situations. But what the cause of that
is according to the Buddha's teaching. That cause is the negative emotions and it is an action
known as karma. Gamma and negative emotions are the cause. That is really the cause of all
sufferings. So this prayer generally, may all living beings be free from suffering,
cause of suffering, is also prayer only to say that what the greatest teacher, Buddha Shakyamala,
said. Suffering truth, cause of suffering truth, among all noble truth. This is the positive truth,
to suffering truth. And suffering truth is not going to arise without any cause and condition.
Condition is not just a boom like that. It has cause, it has condition. It is simply behind
the scenes for a long time, then brought the sufferings. That is the one. And that cause and
condition is negative emotions. Negative emotions. And what are those negative emotions? Of course,
we all know the names. The word is anger, attachment, and the jealous, hated thought.
Those are the front runner. Behind is ignorance and ego cleanings.
Those are the behind the scene of the negative emotions. They are the fundamental. They are the
force. But that producing. We need to activate that. Then it comes. When anger and ignorance
are activated, we need to come to the action. Then it comes with attachment, and aggression,
anger, jealousness, hated thought. Then all those are kind of bursted.
Then what is does? Then according to the Buddha's teaching was named, and then it happened. Action.
Consequence. That is karma. Karma is a Sanskrit word, which means action. Activate, perform.
But that action and what that did is not going there. The residue, the result,
imprint of the, that action remains long time. It remains to the ways of objected, projected.
It remain provide, but more than that, it remain in our consciousness, according to the Buddha's
teaching, in our ally, a mental state, or self-confidence still our, or our self-confidence
still house of the space of the mind will remain for a long time. Long time. Then it's going to
activate more activities. Then it become cause of suffering truth. So this time when we pray,
this both each other, boneless compassion, we pray. May all living beings pray from the suffering.
Whatever they're going through, whatever the troubles, getting old, sicknesses, losing jobs,
or whatever, depression, psychological, mental problems, loneliness, and what exactly whatever
troubles, or fears, and all that, any troubles, all the whatever troubles of the old beings going
through, had hell's ram, and hungry ghost rams, animal rams, human rams, asura rams, god's rams,
whatever they're going, may they all finish, may all that. And then not just only the cause of
those
sufferings, completely finished, may all living beings have to pray from the suffering, cause of
sufferings, suffering truths. And that is known as boneless compassion prayers, compassion. It is
that. And this again, this loving kindness of compassion, these all are great powerful meditation,
powerful mindfulness practices. When you have really intentioned that beautiful thought in your,
our heart and mind, relax our mind, kind that prayer, even kind that prayer, and standing with
our mind and heart behind that whole meaning, meaning is relaxed, it's so calming, it's soothing,
it's relaxing, you're self-centered at that time. For yourself, your own being, through nature,
you're touching to your own heart, your own nature colors, your own beauties. It's so powerful,
so benefit, it's also so precious, refreshing, it's really so powerful. You really think that,
and then look to the horizon of the sky, in the space, or clothes, or trees, and the oceans,
whatever you look, and look horizontally and giant that, reflecting your mind, heart, with those
old
meaning, and relax that. It is powerful. The moment you can feel power and benefit, but deep down
according to what I take, it's horrifying, obscurations, obstacles, habitivity, cleaning
our garments, negativities. It creates a beautiful evaporation energy to the universe, and art,
you know, all that invisible things will feel. Animals will feel your love and compassion,
compassion, really, truly. It's not just saying those things, you can tell that. Then even you
look around the natures, it has new dimensions, new images, that you begin to explore the beauty
of this. You see, you can test yourself, truly. It is, you're touching to your own
nature, but at the same time, because of that, you see the beauty of the nature, of the external
breathing self. And then next one, it's boneless. Boneless, rejoicing joy. How we do that prayer,
may all mother living beings have always happiness, never separated from their
supreme happiness. That is rejoice, or the joy, prayer of the joys. So again, this is boneless,
again, prayer of the boneless joy. This joy is so, again, so powerful. It is, joy is the opposite
of the jealousness, and the opposite of the challenges, and those resentment attitudes.
And we feel hope in you, because why? We pray always, may all living beings are free from suffering
and cause of sufferings, and may all they have happiness and cause of happiness. Now they are
having some duty, they are having. Whether this power of our prayers, or power of their own
activities and prayers, or power of the blessings of the Buddha or enlightenment,
whatever is those individuals are having some performance, enjoyment. Therefore, feel happy,
joy. And one way is, it's also sign of a performance of our own aspirations. Pray,
because we pray every living beings have happiness, and now they have some happiness.
It's really happiness, many times, this ego clinging, this substantial mind,
is kind of beaded or something, sometimes you feel bad, I don't want that, I don't
like to sit there happy. Peace, that is jealousness. But that's jealousy, what's going to help us?
Help us is knocking our head to our own, our own feet, by our own feet, we're knocking to our own
head. Head is not going to do anything, it's hurting to us.
The temple has, it's hurting us now, it's hurting us in deep dome, we're creating negative karma.
And still that, really, this mother sent in beings, whoever they are, they are having some
fulfillment and happiness, and joy, so happy, that's their good karma, they're their good fortunate
,
good. And also we pray, now, sometimes we see, see, maybe we did too some part,
some contribution toward that, toward that, very indirectly that, and you should be happy, our
deep, our blessings, as I say, bless of the buddhas and bodhis, enlightenment, they perform good,
good.
But really, their happiness last for a long time, become more smooth, more happiness,
more peaceful environment to the others, who already contract that, really wishing to pray.
That is known as then, prayer practice of the boneless joy, this is. And then next one is boneless,
equanimity. Equanimity is again, we all, in many levels, we all equal.
What means we all? We all living beings are equal. What in the teaching said?
Emotional level, we're equal. Feeling level, we are equal. Desire level, we're equal.
So we are all equal. In emotional level, we are equal, means everyone wants to be happy,
everyone wants to be peaceful, everyone wants to have performance. So that is the emotional level,
we are all equal. Equal, there's no really a difference. Nobody likes suffering,
nobody likes the sadness, nobody likes the criticized, nobody likes to beat it,
nobody likes to be pushed away or pushed down. I mean, all the same. And then feeling level,
same. Nobody want to, want somebody beat us or somebody talk to us. I mean, same one. And also,
we let me copy, feeling, peaceful, feeling, environment, nice, feeling level, same. I mean,
you can go through that all, everyone is equal. So physical, mentally, emotional level, biological
level, we all equal, go around this earth, all equal. Then what we share is also equal.
All elements are shared with equal level. The fire, we share the warmth, same warmth,
we share same air, we share the same sky or spaces, we share the same wind. We all need water,
we all need earth. Earth, we all need everything, whatever we need, they need everything. So what
is
really difference? Difference, reality level. So mental level, ego, emotional level, ego, what we
share, the living, good level, livelihood level, ego, there is no difference, ego, same. So
therefore,
all, not everyone is equal. But however, even everyone is equal, we don't see that true picture,
what we are thanks to, because of our ego playing, so important. We make so many telling stories,
stories, and so many divisions, so many box, good, bad, friend, enemy, close ones, distance ones,
now all that, really we make art. And maybe that's true, some are close, some are distant,
but we go, we act so strongly with that, and then we make kind of like friends and enemies and all
that, and so many differences. But who is making that? By our ego clinging, self-important. And who
is that? Fundamental is our mind. Mind is making all those divisions, reality level, mind itself is
empty. Where is those in the mental status? The enemy, friend, this and that. Where is that?
There is no one came with sign of the enemies, enemies. There is no one came
sign or label or title of friends. It's all nominated by our mind. Our mind, the emptiness mind,
is mind. Said it does not exist at all, it also changes. Enemy can become the best friends,
best friend can become best enemy, because it's play game of the mind, then hold on that.
So reality level really is all blended in, same, equal, equal latest status. Our mind is making all
those games, and mind is making all those territories, and mind is making them consequences
everywhere we are creating so many habit patterns, one after another. It's blocking the beauty of
our
mind, our nature of the mind, blocking that shining of love and complete, making those territories
of
the ego clinging. Then it makes more troubles to us, to all the beings. So therefore, being wise,
and therefore brain, that equanimity, this realization is so important. For that reason,
may I bring, may I have the, how we join that place, and may all have the great
equanimity realization, close, attached to the close ones, and rejection attitude toward
other beings. But how it translate? May they remain, may they remain, or may we remain. I mean,
here translated as a day, but it's we. May we, or may I. May I remain in the boneless
equanimity, free from both attachment to those close ones, and rejection of others. That is
may we remain. So this is again translated here, maybe there is not, Zali is really correct,
I believe, my understanding, because it's the may I remain. Or may we all remain in the boneless
equanimity, not just this. That means it looks like I don't need myself. But we all need this
until, until we get the Buddhahood, or some Buddha is praying this one, maybe Buddha can say,
may they remain to all that. But I think it's that, until the Buddha, we need enlightenment,
we should pray to ourselves too. So we should remain in this circle, which remain in this
stadium or rain. We should remain in our rain. We all need this praise. May we remain in the bon
eless
equanimity, free from both attachment to the close ones, and rejection of others. That is really
the
praise. And so this is, I mentioned really about our poor boneless, of course you all know this,
nothing. But this is the one we, according to the practices, when you say that. But many,
and the teachings say that when you put practices, you should start with contemplating on the
equanimity first. If you don't do the equanimity first, first the teaching opens it, then the
boneless love, boneless compassion, boneless rejoicing won't come so boneless. Therefore,
start with the equanimity. Equanimity, when you put in practice, when you meditate in that. So
first,
that is, I mean, what I say today is like, like just pray, but also this meditation,
meditate in this, and allowing kindness, and meditate on the compassion, meditate on the
rejoice and the joy, meditate on the equanimity, and meditate on the equanimity first. We are all
equal. Everyone is equal. As myself and as everyone, really that equanimity, all those teachings
you put,
bring up more kind of like tangible meaning, and observe that in the heart, and then relax,
and have that equanimity meditation. Just challenge this prayer, and meditate it for
every time, for two minutes, or whatever your time. Just relax again. If you don't have the
worship, if you have time, just relax and meditate there. And that's how we build up this
vision for each other. And that is my brief talk, and again we continue to talk tomorrow, too.
Thank,
okay, thank everyone.
[silence]